More breaking news right now.
And this coming from the Middle
East, tensions
skyrocketing there
after assassinations this week.
And we are getting right now
some brand new details
about exactly
how the assassination
of the Hamas political leader,
Ismail Haniya, went down.
And this
these are incredible details.
A Jeremy Diamond is breaking.
He's in Haifa, Israel,
in northern Israel right now.
And Jeremy,
these details
are pretty stunning.
Yeah, no doubt about it, Erin.
I mean,
this was a quite
sophisticated operation.
I'm told by a source familiar
with the matter
that Ismail Haniyeh
was assassinated
in Tehran early yesterday
morning using a bomb
that was covertly hidden
in the guest house
where he was staying.
But this bomb,
I'm told,
was actually covertly
planted inside that guest house
about two months ago,
and it was only
remotely detonated once.
It was clear
that Ismail Haniyeh,
Hamas's political leader,
was actually inside his room,
inside of that guest house
when that bomb was detonated.
He was killed alongside
his bodyguard,
who was also there.
Now, we should note that
Israel has still
neither confirmed nor denied
its involvement in this.
Iranian officials
and Hamas have said
that Israel was behind
this attack.
I'm also told that Israel
Israeli officials
actually briefed U.S.
officials on this operation,
but only after it took place,
only after
we learned
that Ismail
Haniya had been killed in this.
What's also interesting here
is that this guest house
was actually under the control
of Iran's Islamic
Revolutionary Guard Corps.
And so this represents
a stunning breach of security
for them,
a very big embarrassment
for the IRGC.
And we've reached out
to Iranian officials
for comment on this.
But we know, of course,
that we heard yesterday
from Iran's supreme
leader vowing revenge,
saying that
Israel has, quote,
paved the way
for your harsh punishment.
This assassination
has put this region
on a knife's
edge, in addition,
of course, to
the Israeli strike in Beirut,
just hours before this, that
took out a senior
Hezbollah commander.
There are now threats
of retaliation
not only from Iran,
but also from Hezbollah
and Hamas
putting this region
and this area
where I am right now
in northern Israel,
very much on edge
as the possibility
of retaliation now looms.
Aaron, thank you very much.
Jeremy Diamond.
Cedric Leighton joins me now.
Colonel Cedric Layton,
Colonel Jeremy's
reporting is really stunning,
and he mentioned this,
but let's just emphasize
this again.
He is reporting
that ostensibly,
some Israeli operatives,
although they
have not confirmed
their involvement,
planted an IED in Tehran
in a guest house controlled
by the Islamic
Revolutionary Guard Corps,
the elite IRGC,
two months ago,
and then remotely detonated it
when they knew that
the guy they wanted to get
was actually staying
in that house.
Holy cow.
Yeah. Holy cow is right, Aaron.
This is very classic operation
in, you know,
kind of in line
with the tradition
of Israeli
intelligence going back,
you know,
almost to the
founding of Israel
and what the Israelis say,
if they did this,
what they were able to do was,
Jeremy pointed out,
was breach
security
in a really remarkable way.
The IRGC,
the Iranian Revolutionary Guard
Corps, is very much in control
of a lot of different
aspects of Iranian life.
but they weren't in direct
control of this guest house,
which was ostensibly
their own guest house.
And whoever breached this and,
you know,
the supposition is
that it was Israel.
But whoever did this did
a remarkable job.
And the fact also
has to be
noted that
this was not detected
for probably over two months.
If you know, if Jeremy's
reporting is
and his sources are accurate,
so that,
that really indicates that,
you know, people were,
quite frankly, overcome by,
you know,
by their own sloppiness
in this particular case and,
this, this very fact
on the Iranian side
shows that Israel
has been able to penetrate,
their security apparatus
quite a bit.
and that, of course, signals,
some major weaknesses
in the Iranian structure.
I mean, Jeremy,
just to emphasize this
and I know, Abby,
I don't know
if your reporting is
is how detailed
is on the form of an IED,
but you have
an improvised explosive
device inside a guest house,
which would presumably mean
no one was sweeping it
or checking it
before this Hamas leader
came in.
Or in fact,
any time in the past
two months,
which would seem to be
just a really basic,
basic point of protocol.
Yeah.
Look, we don't know exactly
what kind of explosive device
this was.
We don't know exactly where
it was hidden,
whether this was something
that could have evaded,
the typical checks
that the IRGC
would conduct on this.
But I think one clear,
failure of security here
is the fact
that this guest house,
the reason
why this bomb was planted
there is because it
was a guest house
where Ismail Haniyeh
was known to have stayed.
And so this indicates
that Hania was a repeat guest
in this same location,
which is obviously a security,
a major security vulnerability
that the Israelis appear
to have exploited here.
and so we don't know
exactly how this happened,
but there's no question
that there will be,
major questions
asked within the IRGC,
within Iran's top political,
and military echelons
about how this could have
possibly, happened.
And I also think it's notable
that yesterday,
Iranian state
media was reporting
that this was a rocket
that was fired from outside
into this, guest house
that actually killed Tania.
But the fact that
it was actually something
that was planted
in the guest house suggests
even additional
layers of of failure.
It also makes clear
that this was not,
fired by a drone
or by a fighter jet
that would have violated
Iranian airspace.
So that also may factor
into how Iran
chooses to retaliate,
for this assassination.
And that's a significant point
as well.
Colonel, it also,
though what
Jeremy saying
does just make one thing
sort of unbelievably clear.
So let's just say in
black and white,
that means a human being
is involved, who's in Tehran,
who actually gets access
to this guest house
and plants something.
At some point
there is a human
being infiltration,
which is different
than what Jeremy's saying.
They had originally been
put out there
about a rocket or a drone.
Right.
Which could be completely done
remotely.
That shows
actual physical human
involvement. Colonel.
It does. Absolutely.
And it's
really a classic case of,
in essence,
a clandestine operation.
these are the
kinds of operations
you would have seen
the British conduct
in World War Two
with a special Operations
executive.
in Europe,
you would have seen the OSS,
the forerunner of the CIA,
doing stuff like this.
Also in that conflict
and the Mossad
has a history
of doing things of this type,
in various countries
around the world.
And, of course,
Iran is a prime target.
I, we know a lot about the,
you know,
many of the nuclear scientists
who have been killed in Iran,
ostensibly by the Israelis,
that kind of operation
and the fact that
these things are continuing
and that there's such
a significant penetration
of IRGC security
at a guest house
that is frequented
by people like Hania.
that really shows that,
as Jeremy said,
there's a significant weakness
in their security apparatus.
And they,
you know, they really didn't
it didn't take care of things.
All right. Thank you very much.
Colonel and Jeremy,
for that
incredible, insignificant
reporting on
that, assassination.